Motorola is splitting its flagship smartphone brand in two, with one new Moto
X that’ll be released in the U.S. and internationally, and a second that won’t
be sold in the U.S. The company announced the duo on Tuesday morning alongside
a new waterproof Moto G handset. Together, the three aggressively priced
phones make up the Lenovo-owned company’s 2015 lineup.

The Moto X Style—which is headed for North and South America, Europe and
Asia—will be able to run on any U.S. mobile network. “We’re taking a
disruptive strategy,” said Steve Sinclair, Motorola’s VP of product marketing.
“We’re going to sell the Moto X Style on Motorola.com and Amazon.com, and you
can choose the carrier you want.” Sinclair said that Motorola will sell a
version of the Moto X Style through carriers later in the year, and that it’ll
still work with Verizon to develop new phones under the Droid brand.

The Moto X Style has a massive 5.7-inch display with borders that Sinclair
says are the slimmest ever seen on a Motorola phone. “It’s smaller in height
and width than the iPhone 6 Plus, which has a 5.5-inch display,” Sinclair
said. Like last year’s Moto X, the Moto X Style will feature a metal frame and
curved back. It’ll have a new 21-megapixel camera, and a 5-megapixel
front-facing camera that has a wide-angle lens and flash specifically designed
to take great selfies, he said.

The Moto X Style will offer up to 30 hours of battery life, with a
quick-charging technology that’ll give it 10 hours of power in just 15
minutes. “We’re making the claim that these are the world’s fastest-charging
phones,” Sinclair said.

Sinclair said the Moto X Style will be water resistant, meaning it can handle
splashes of water with no problem. “This is a phone you could take in the
shower with you, if you wanted to,” he added.

The everywhere-but-the-U.S. Moto X Play is slightly smaller, with a 5.5 inch
1080p edge-to-edge display. But it’ll offer up to 48 hours of battery life. It
too has a quick-charging battery that can get up to eight hours of power in 15
minutes. And it will have the same front and rear cameras as the Moto X Style.

The Moto X Play goes on sale in August, with the Moto X Style arriving in
September. Both phones will be sold unlocked or through carrier contracts at
“about two thirds the price of most premium, flagship phones.” Motorola is
selling the Moto X Style Pure Edition, unlocked, at a starting price of $400.
